# tidytuesdays

Hi there! My name is Andrew - I'm currently a fourth-year medical student at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, applying into internal medicine. 

For some background on me and what this is - I, like many medical students, got exposure to research while in medical school. Unlike previous research I, and many other medical students, had done prior to medical school, I learned that clinical outcomes research is based mostly on utilizing, cleaning, and analyzing very large datasets rather than benchtop basic research. The importance of speaking the language of data science became apparent rather quickly - not only did I see that being able to efficiently and capably utilize tools like R to perform high-quality data analysis was crucial to doing good outcomes investigation, but I also saw that dubious techniques and low-quality effort were honestly rampant at this level of research and led to an inundation of low quality studies that add nothing to the realm of medical knowledge. 

I had previously taken some coding classes as an undergraduate, but medical school was the place where I really picked up and refined a lot of my R skill. I felt like the level of skill that I had was sufficient to perform the analysis that my attendings asked of me, and I've provided links to [different examples](https://www.jvsvi.org/article/S2949-9127(24)00015-1/fulltext) of the [types of analysis](https://www.ahajournals.org/doi/10.1161/circ.149.suppl_1.P186) I can perform in a [research context](https://www.annalsofvascularsurgery.com/article/S0890-5096(25)00344-9/fulltext). I believe [this paper](https://www.annalsofvascularsurgery.com/article/S0890-5096(25)00911-2/fulltext) accurately reflects the type of analysis I'm capable of doing - I was fortunate and grateful that, for this project, I was able to drive most of the analysis and writing on my own, and I think this is a good representation of the R skill I have at baseline. 

A cool thing about the fourth year of medical school, outside of the anxiety of not being able to find out where I'm contractually obligated to spend the next 3 years of my life until late March, is that there's a lot of free time. I'm fortunate that my program allows for a large amount of elective time to explore topics of interest prior to entering into residency. I've taken advantage of this elective time to really dig in and highly refine my R and my statistics ability - I've pursued more formalized training opportunities to gain more R and statistics skills. I know that I'm interested in pursuing research while in residency - I believe in the power and utility of research with high-quality data analysis to drive decision-making in medicine, and now I feel like I have the tools to contribute to that at a level that I want. Not to mention, I just think that it's fun - I was a chemical engineer for a large pharmaceutical company before going to medical school, and these data cleaning and analysis projects scratch that part of my brain in a way that hyponatremia and neurologic exams can't. 

This repository is intended to be:

1. A showcase of my R abilities
2. A real-time log of my improvement

I plan on doing this mainly through the TidyTuesday datasets. My goal isn't to produce a polished, publication-ready style report every time, but rather to just showcase how I write code, how I think through these problems, and different challenges I'll do for myself to continue to push my R skill to be better. It's intended to be part journal, as I'll hopefully see my own improvement over time. Another part of this is intended to be Cunningham's Law - if I put things out on the internet, I suppose someone will correct me if I'm doing something wrong at some point. 

Anyway, that's what I'm up to. I don't know how you stumbled onto this, but now that you're here - welcome
